Gather
A day's
Portion.
I'll unpack that in just a minute gather a day's portion
You might call it
Faithful realism.
in daily Bible intake.
In short,
Don't try to do too much.
Don't try to acquire a lifetime's worth.
200,000 of Bible knowledge in a few short months or weeks.
And on the other hand,
Don't fall off the wagon when you miss a day and go long stretches without coming to God and His Word.
Rather,
Adopt.
A modest
realistic approach to meeting with God in his word and seek to be faithful
For the long haul.
Coming to feed on God.
Through his word.
To be nourished
To receive
Not to achieve
in morning devotions. So gather a day's portion.
And I'll flesh this out in five brief aspects. But first,
Let me give you some.
the context from where i'm getting this strange phrase about gathering a day's portion
Some of you may know.
It's Exodus chapter 16.
You may remember in Exodus after 14,
that God has miraculously delivered his people from slavery in Egypt through the Red Sea.
And in chapter 15 they erupt in song of praise to God. And before chapter 15 it's even over.
They're grumbling.
Only three days later
And God's gracious to them?
He heals.
The bitter water.
He brings them to a place of plenty.
An oasis.
that has 12 springs of water and 70 palm trees.
at the end of exodus fifteen
and once they set out again from the oasis they are grumbling again at the beginning of chapter 16.
And now they're turning delusional.
Well going back to Egypt
And again, God responds with grace.
This is Exodus chapter 16 verse 4. Behold.
I am about to rain bread from heaven.
For you.
and the people shall go out.
And gather a day's portion.
This bread
Because you may know.
They call manna.
and moses gives further instruction in verse sixteen gather of it each one of you as much as he can eat
for that day.
And we'll store up for the future.
For months
As much as he can eat that day.
now.
Exodus 16.
is not first and foremost about Christian Bible reading.
I know that.
Admit that. It's not first and foremost about how to meet with God each day.
But
It does give us a glimpse.
into who our God is.
and what it means to have him as our God and for us to be his people.
He is the kind of God
Who provides for the needs of his people
daily.
Everyday basis
He is the God who is with his people.
Every step of the way
to give us by his own hand provision, daily provision to sustain us in the wilderness.
Any place in the world.
And get us safely
To the promised land.
And he loves to feed his people.
A day.
At a time.
So Jesus taught us to pray to his father. Give us this day our daily bread.
And Jesus warned us
against the build bigger barns mindset of the rich fool who put his hope for the future on what he had stored up.
Rather than on
God's daily provision.
God wants our sitting down
With the open Bible,
Every day to meet with him in his word to be more like coming to dinner
Then like it is going to the grocery store.
When you go to the grocery store,
You...
stock you stock up for later on.
You develop your stash. You fill up the pantry.
When you come to dinner you come to eat and drink and enjoy
Now
God wants you to come to eat, to feast, to enjoy now.
not stock up for future ministry. He'll take care of that.
What you can teach later on in the church or mission field or what you say to somebody else later on, he will take care of that in the future. He means in those moments for you to feed from.
Eat from him and have your soul satisfied in him forever.
Feed straight from his table.
So coming to God's word,
is to gather a day's portion.
And let me mention five brief aspects of gathering a day's portion. This is what it has come to mean for me in these years.
in gathering a day's portion. The first is the plan.
And that includes time and place.
It was no accident that Jesus rose
early.
And the united testimony.
of centuries
of faithful Saints
Has been that the quiet
of the first thing in the morning is far and away the best time for far and away the most Christians.
I want to hear God's voice
before I hear another voice
Each morning.
I want to come to scripture before I come to the smartphone.
And most of us will find out over time.
That if you can
Turn off the screen the night before.
and get to bed on time and get up early before everybody else who stayed up too late on their screens then you have the quietest time
The least distracting thought. To meet with God in his word.
So first part of the plan is the time.
The second part of the plan is the place. Okay.
and I mean that in two senses
One is the place in the world, and the other is the place in the Word.
In the world,
It means there's a physical location there.
Where you
meet with God.
with your Bible open.
For me,
I love having an uncluttered desk or an empty table.
I like having a private space if I can. I don't like somebody else sitting across the room or a coffee house full of people.
Just to even think about what eyes are on me, how they're perceiving me.
In the word then means
What place are you going to go to?
As you get up.
And you're just waking up from sleep and you're just having your coffee in the morning
I would not recommend
that you just flip open randomly.
Or that you just go where you think you're interested in in the spur of the moment.
But that you have some kind of
Plan.
that you trust god for a provision ahead of time so that when you come to the word that morning that assigned text that
for the day if it's an annual Bible reading plan the machine plan the disciple journal plan whatever plan it would be that you have an assigned text from him for the day and he meet and try
And trust that He means to feed you from that text.
for the day.
So first of the plan, second then is that pace.
And this is so important.
I suspect that so many seasons,
of Bible reading.
Are ruined
By rushing
And impatience.
Modern life can be so hurried.
We hurry.
As we eat, we hurry as we drive.
Just scroll through feeds.
We hurry when we read articles and books.
just skimming.
Because you feel like you're running out of time.
I'm getting taught to read my screens.
But hurry
Ruins
Bible reading.
I think it hampers most reading.
But Bible reading all the more.
God did not design the Bible to be rushed through.
It is so
Carefully crafted.
And preserved
To be lingered over.
To take it in at an unhurried pace.
Even leisurely.
If we might venture such a term.
In a life of hurry,
Let these moments of meeting with God be your way of standing against the tide of hurry.
in our society slow down
When you open the bible
Find the pace.
That accords with nourishing your soul
God's word is not
Not fast.
food.
It is a feast.
To be enjoyed.
And for me, this means I need enough time
To lose track of time.
I want to be able to follow rabbit trails.
i want to check my own mental cross references or the cross references in the margin because i want to understand scripture in the world of scripture
As I go through a passage, I want to think about...
this word, this language, this theme, this concept, this category, is there something else in scripture before it that would give shed light on it? Is there something in scripture later that would reveal more light on it?
on it.
So plan, pace, third then is pause.
And what I want to highlight here is the importance of
Meditation.
not eastern meditation not meditation emptying your head
this is the meditation with a full head
Of truth,
From God's word.
it's not just reading.
But as you read slowly, as we've already established, you find some place to pause.
Some place to linger, to ponder some striking truth.
From God's word. Some unexpected ray of his goodness.
some glimpse of his beauty.
in meditation you pause and you ponder some truth you roll it around on the tongue
Of your soul.
Seeking not only to understand it, but to
To enjoy it.
To feel the horror
Of the warning
I feel the goodness.
I've got to promise.
and his love for us in Christ.
Which leads then
To a response.
It's called prayer.
We take God's Word in,
and take it down to even meditation and God means for us to respond in prayer
that's the fourth p
In meditation
It's like a bridge.
Between
Bible reading and prayer
Meditation is this bridge.
I would not recommend that you do your Bible reading over here.
And then make an abrupt pivot
To pray lists. To pray lists.
Rather,
Let your Bible reading
Lead to a time of meditation, of taking the truths down deep.
You're having it go into your soul, feeling the weight of it.
And then let your meditation
Lead you into prayer
Inspire your prayers. Maybe you're praying for the same things every day, for family and for friends and for the nations and for your campus. But meditation can inform and inspire.
Inspire and give the terms in which you meet God in prayer that day. Amen.
so my little ark
For,
Morning devotions
meeting with God each day is begin with Bible
Move to meditation
Polish.
with prayer.
To meet with God.
is not only to hear his words in the bible
But also to speak back
To him.
In the response that he invites
called prayer.
It's a relationship.
We're meeting with God.
First he speaks
In his word.
And we listen deeply and we take it all the way in through meditation.
And then amazingly, God wants to hear back from us.
In Christ.
We have the ear.
God almighty
in prayer.
and so he means for us now in light of what he says in his word to address him in praise in thanks in confession in supplication
So plan, pace,
Pause, pray,
And finally,
There's a person.
His name is Jesus.
Meeting with God in His Word is no mere activity.
It's not mainly an exercise in learning.
It is meeting with a person.
Who has not only got himself
but has come near and taken our flesh and blood as fully man
To see Jesus.
Spiritually
By the Spirit.
Through his word is to see.
God.
To know him.
is to know God, to enjoy Jesus.
is to enjoy God.
1. Defeat your soul on Jesus. 2.
The bread of life
Is to have true
life.
So Bible reading,
In meditation
And prayer are means
To an end.
They are God's means of grace.
To the great end of knowing
And enjoying
Jesus.
as.
The pearl of greatest price.
and the treasure hidden in a field found in joy and the surpassing value worth counting all his loss
To gain.
In him.
So gather a day's portion.
Brothers and sisters,
Which is a reminder
Not to try to do too much.
In daily devotions, in meeting with God, and not to miss the main thing.
Our most pressing need is not to master the Bible.
but to be mastered by God.
In Christ.
Through his word in a day's portion.
For a lifetime.
I said, Father, would you make it true for me today?
And these dear brothers and sisters.
Provide for us daily in Christ through your word.
In Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.